for an idea of the scale for the
supergiant we're here to find I've got a
selection of skulls this one belongs to
a black bear and these are found right
here in California but it's totally
dwarfed by this one this is a grizzly
bear and the canine teeth on this one
are about as long as my thumb
this is in the record books as being the
largest land predator on earth so this
gargantuan skull must surely come from
some prehistoric dinosaur a
saber-toothed cat perhaps well actually
this super giant is anything but extinct
in fact they're increasing in number
they're said to be over 150,000 of them
and the best place to see them is on the
beach just over there
these are elephant seals it's pretty
obvious where the name comes from
maybe that size and skin and that
extraordinary nose they do just look
like swimming elephants elephant seals
are the biggest seals on the planet the
largest can be 6 metres long and a
whopping 4 tons I want to see for myself
why elephant seals have become super
giant it's important to respect their
personal space elephant seals rarely
cross paths with people but when they do
they can really throw their weight
around up here on land they're
impossibly ungainly and out of place but
for these female elephant seals there's
still one part of their life where
they're totally bound the land they come
here to give birth
right and to find a man it's the male
elephant seals that are the real super
Giants there are over three times
heavier than females
the males have to fight for mates the
bigger they are the better their chances
of success thanks to scientists from the
University of California Santa Cruz I
can get hands-on with one to see how
it's equipped for battle
he's been sedated while the team
attached a radio transmitter that's
remarkable as the animals breathing you
can hear the air resonating around that
if you need to know you can feel the
vibrations coming up from the ground
it's like someone revving a big
motorbike right next to you inside that
mouth are four canine teeth look a
little bit like that particularly the
two on the lower jaw are angled forward
like this and can be used in a stabbing
motion if that was propelled at me I
wouldn't last a second
you